README.md, before:

# Rosie: Mecanum-Wheeled Home Assistant Robot

Rosie is an autonomous home assistant robot designed for object detection, navigation, and manipulation.  
**2024 - Present**

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHLM9LW5f4Y">
    <img src="demo.gif" alt="Demo" />
  </a>
  
  <br> <p>
    <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHLM9LW5f4Y">
      <b>🎥 Click here to watch the demo</b>
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

---

## What is Rosie?

A mobile manipulator with:
- 🧭 **Autonomous Navigation** (SLAM + Nav2)
- 👁️ **Object Detection** (YOLOv8)  
- 🦾 **Robotic Arm** (6-DOF with gripper)
- 🚗 **Holonomic Motion** (Mecanum wheels - strafe in any direction)

**Hardware Stack:** Jetson Nano (AI) → Raspberry Pi (ROS2) → ESP32 (motor control)

---

## Quick Start

### Setup
```bash
git clone <repo-url> Rosie-Robot && cd Rosie-Robot
rosdep install -r --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro humble -y
colcon build --symlink-install
source install/setup.bash
```

### Run Everything (One Command!)
```bash
ros2 launch rosie_navigation bringup.launch.py
```

This starts:
- ✅ Motors & Lidar
- ✅ SLAM Mapping
- ✅ Nav2 Autonomous Navigation
- ✅ RViz Visualization

### Optional: Arm + Detection
```bash
# Terminal 2 - Object detection
ros2 launch yolov8_obb yolov8_obb.launch.py

# Terminal 3 - Arm control
ros2 launch rosie_moveit_config rosie_moveit_launch.py
```

## System Architecture

```
Jetson Nano (AI inference)
    ↓ /detections
Raspberry Pi (ROS2: Nav2, MoveIt2)
    ↓ /cmd_vel
ESP32 (Motor driver)
    ↓ Serial UART
Motors & Sensors
```

---

## Package Structure

```
src/
├── rosie_navigation/          # Main unified bringup (SLAM + Nav2)
├── mecanumbot_bringup/        # Hardware drivers
├── mecanumbot_control/        # Motor controller
├── rosie_moveit_config/       # Arm motion planning
├── yolov8_obb/                # Object detection
├── rosie_description/         # Robot URDF
└── custom_message/            # Message definitions
```

---

## Hardware Specs

| Component | Spec |
|-----------|------|
| **Compute** | Jetson Nano + Raspberry Pi + ESP32 |
| **Wheels** | 4× Mecanum (omnidirectional) |
| **Sensors** | LiDAR, IMU, Depth Camera |
| **Actuators** | 4× DC motors, 6-DOF arm, gripper |
| **Base Size** | 0.285m × 0.17m × 0.082m |
| **Max Speed** | 1.0 m/s (forward/strafe) |

---


## Key Features

### SLAM + Navigation
- Real-time environment mapping
- AMCL localization with particle filter
- Nav2 with DWB local planner
- Holonomic motion model for Mecanum wheels

### Object Detection
- YOLOv8 Oriented Bounding Boxes (OBB)
- Real-time inference on Jetson Nano
- Accurate grasping point calculation

### Motion Planning
- MoveIt2 for 6-DOF arm
- Collision-free trajectory planning
- Pick-and-place pipeline

---

## Next Steps

- 🔄 Optimize SLAM in complex environments
- 📚 Train custom YOLO on household objects
- 🎯 Improve grasping accuracy
- 🤖 Multi-object task planning

---

## Quick Links

- [ROS2 Humble](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/)
- [Nav2 Navigation](https://navigation.ros.org/)
- [MoveIt2](https://moveit.picknik.ai/)
- [SLAM Toolbox](https://github.com/SteveMacenski/slam_toolbox)
- [MicroROS-Car-Pi5 Reference](https://github.com/YahboomTechnology/MicroROS-Car-Pi5)

---

**License:** Apache 2.0 | **Author:** Robots With AI | **Updated:** January 2026

Commit message:

Update to reflect humanoid robot with two arms

README.md, after:

# Rosie: Mecanum-Wheeled Home Assistant Robot

Rosie is a home assistant robot designed for object detection, grasping, and navigation. This project explores autonomous mobility, human-robot interaction, and real-world deployment.  
**2024 - Present**

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHLM9LW5f4Y">
    <img src="demo.gif" alt="Demo" />
  </a>
  
  <br> <p>
    <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHLM9LW5f4Y">
      <b>🎥 Click here to watch the demo</b>
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

---

## What is Rosie?

A humanoid mobile robot with:
- 🧭 **Autonomous Navigation** (SLAM + Nav2)
- 👁️ **Object Detection** (YOLOv8)  
- 🦾 **Two Arms with Hands** (dexterous manipulation)
- 🚗 **Holonomic Motion** (Mecanum wheels - strafe in any direction)

**Hardware Stack:** Jetson Nano (AI) → Raspberry Pi (ROS2) → ESP32 (motor control)

---

## Quick Start

### Setup
```bash
git clone <repo-url> Rosie-Robot && cd Rosie-Robot
rosdep install -r --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro humble -y
colcon build --symlink-install
source install/setup.bash
```

### Run Everything (One Command!)
```bash
ros2 launch rosie_navigation bringup.launch.py
```

This starts:
- ✅ Motors & Lidar
- ✅ SLAM Mapping
- ✅ Nav2 Autonomous Navigation
- ✅ RViz Visualization

### Optional: Arm + Detection
```bash
# Terminal 2 - Object detection
ros2 launch yolov8_obb yolov8_obb.launch.py

# Terminal 3 - Arm control
ros2 launch rosie_moveit_config rosie_moveit_launch.py
```

## System Architecture

```
Jetson Nano (AI inference)
    ↓ /detections
Raspberry Pi (ROS2: Nav2, MoveIt2)
    ↓ /cmd_vel
ESP32 (Motor driver)
    ↓ Serial UART
Motors & Sensors
```

---

## Package Structure

```
src/
├── rosie_navigation/          # Main unified bringup (SLAM + Nav2)
├── mecanumbot_bringup/        # Hardware drivers
├── mecanumbot_control/        # Motor controller
├── rosie_moveit_config/       # Arm motion planning
├── yolov8_obb/                # Object detection
├── rosie_description/         # Robot URDF
└── custom_message/            # Message definitions
```

---

## Hardware Specs

| Component | Spec |
|-----------|------|
| **Compute** | Jetson Nano + Raspberry Pi + ESP32 |
| **Wheels** | 4× Mecanum (omnidirectional) |
| **Sensors** | LiDAR, IMU, Depth Camera |
| **Actuators** | 4× DC motors, 6-DOF arm, gripper |
| **Base Size** | 0.285m × 0.17m × 0.082m |
| **Max Speed** | 1.0 m/s (forward/strafe) |

---


## Key Features

### SLAM + Navigation
- Real-time environment mapping
- AMCL localization with particle filter
- Nav2 with DWB local planner
- Holonomic motion model for Mecanum wheels

### Object Detection
- YOLOv8 Oriented Bounding Boxes (OBB)
- Real-time inference on Jetson Nano
- Accurate grasping point calculation

### Motion Planning
- MoveIt2 for 6-DOF arm
- Collision-free trajectory planning
- Pick-and-place pipeline

---

## Next Steps

- 🔄 Optimize SLAM in complex environments
- 📚 Train custom YOLO on household objects
- 🎯 Improve grasping accuracy
- 🤖 Multi-object task planning

---

## Quick Links

- [ROS2 Humble](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/)
- [Nav2 Navigation](https://navigation.ros.org/)
- [MoveIt2](https://moveit.picknik.ai/)
- [SLAM Toolbox](https://github.com/SteveMacenski/slam_toolbox)
- [MicroROS-Car-Pi5 Reference](https://github.com/YahboomTechnology/MicroROS-Car-Pi5)

---

**License:** Apache 2.0 | **Author:** Robots With AI | **Updated:** January 2026
